chore: add change log for version 2.5 (#1700)
apache/incubator-pegasus: HISTORY.md

# Pegasus Change Log

## 2.5.0

### New Features
* Add a new ACL based on Apache Ranger to provide fine-grained access control to global-level, database-level and table-level resources. On the other hand, it is also compatible with the old coarse-grained ACL. [#1054](https://github.com/apache/incubator-pegasus/issues/1054)

> * Add support to query and update table-level rocksdb options dynamically, where currently only `num_levels` and `write_buffer_size` are supported; other options would be added gradually, if necessary. [#1511](https://github.com/apache/incubator-pegasus/pull/1511)

Reviewer: Unify the "rocksdb", some other places are called "RocksDB" in this text.

Author: OK, I'll use RocksDB as the unique representation.

> * Add support to query and update table-level rocksdb options dynamically, where currently only `num_levels` and `write_buffer_size` are supported; other options would be added gradually, if necessary. [#1511](https://github.com/apache/incubator-pegasus/pull/1511)

Reviewer: How about dynamically -> at runtime?

Author: Sure.

> * Pegasus could be built on more platforms: Ubuntu 22.04/Clang 14, M1 MacOS. [#1350](https://github.com/apache/incubator-pegasus/pull/1350), [#1094](https://github.com/apache/incubator-pegasus/pull/1094)

Reviewer: IMO this is not important, how about move it to the bottom of "New Features"?

Author: OK, I'll move it and the following item.

> * Pegasus could be developed and built in a docker environment, which is more friendly to newbies. [#1544](https://github.com/apache/incubator-pegasus/pull/1544)

Reviewer: It would be nice ti mention "via VSCode" and add a link https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/devcontainers/containers

Author: OK.

> * Provide a RESTful service to query immediate values of metrics from new framework, where retrievals according to filters given by users, such as entity types, ids, attributes and metric names, are also supported. [#1206](https://github.com/apache/incubator-pegasus/issues/1206)

Reviewer: Let's leave this point to the next release after the whole work finished, because there is no metrics can be queried via RESTful API currently.

> * Add a mechanism for the retirement of the metric entities that are no longer used to release the memory they hold. [#1304](https://github.com/apache/incubator-pegasus/pull/1304)

Reviewer: Ditto.

> * Add `rename_app` RPC interface for meta service and `rename` command for Pegasus shell, allowing to rename a table. [#1272](https://github.com/apache/incubator-pegasus/pull/1272)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add a new`rename` command for Pegasus cpp-shell, allowing to rename a table. [#1272](https://github.com/apache/incubator-pegasus/pull/1272)
```

It's not needed to mention the internal changes.

* Add a configuration `[network] enable_udp` to control if UDP service is started. The service would not be started when set to false. [#1132](https://github.com/apache/incubator-pegasus/pull/1132)
* Add support to dump the statistical information while using `jemalloc`. [#1133](https://github.com/apache/incubator-pegasus/pull/1133)

> * Support `success_if_exist` option for the interface of creating table to pegasus shell, java and go clients. [#1148](https://github.com/apache/incubator-pegasus/pull/1148)

Reviewer: Unify the name of "pegasus" to "Pegasus", "shell" to "cpp-shell"

> * Add support to list tables for java client. [#1471](https://github.com/apache/incubator-pegasus/pull/1471) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add a new interface `listApps` to the Java client to list all tables. [#1471](https://github.com/apache/incubator-pegasus/pull/1471) 
```

* Add a new option `[replication] crash_on_slog_error` to make it possible to exit the replica server if the shared log failed to be replayed, instead of trashing all the replicas on the server. [#1574](https://github.com/apache/incubator-pegasus/pull/1574)

> * Support to flush and remove all shared log files for garbage collection, since there is at least 1 shared log file which is never removed, though long before that the private logs were written as WAL instead of shared logs. [#1594](https://github.com/apache/incubator-pegasus/pull/1594)

Reviewer: How about move this change to "Behavior changes", and express the meaning of "all shared logs will be removed".

### Performance Improvements

> * Improve the performance of `count_data` by only transferring the number of records rather than the real data. [#1091](https://github.com/apache/incubator-pegasus/pull/1091)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Improve the performance of `count_data` of cpp-shell by only transferring the number of records rather than the real data. [#1091](https://github.com/apache/incubator-pegasus/pull/1091)
```

> ### Behavior changes

Reviewer: Suggest to move "Behavior changes" to the top of each version, it's more important to notify the users.

Author: Exactly. And I'll add another important change -- using official release of RocksDB(https://github.com/apache/incubator-pegasus/pull/1048).

* Now the logs in servers and C++ clients are in increase severity order of `DEBUG`, `INFO`, `WARNING`, `ERROR` and `FATAL`, which means the inverse order between `DEBUG` and `INFO` has been corrected. [#1200](https://github.com/apache/incubator-pegasus/pull/1200)
* No longer support EOL OS versions, including Ubuntu 16.04 and Centos 6. [#1553](https://github.com/apache/incubator-pegasus/pull/1553), [#1557](https://github.com/apache/incubator-pegasus/pull/1557)

### Bug fixes

> * Fixed a bug that the RocksDB library is not built in `Release` version, which may cause terrible performance issues. [#1340](https://github.com/apache/incubator-pegasus/pull/1340)

Reviewer: Unify the tense, either is OK.
